			  Scripting in VISTA
			( Nicky S. 07/29/1998)

Q. What is scripting?
A.
	Scripting is a way of expressing a task in simple
constructs. Scripting itself relies on modules already available and
scripting is like a glue which passes information from one module to
another. In other words scripting is excellent for plugging together
various components to get a task done.

Q. Why do we need scripting?
A.
	A GUI is good to get started or to do investigative
studies. However once a pattern for doing a task is established the
GUI gets in the way of getting work done efficiently. 

Q. How is VISTA going to support scripting?
A.
	A scripting language in Vista would have basic control
constructs such as if,while,for. morevover, the scripting language
would be VISTA specific. In addition support for primitive variables
would be available.As much as possible would be assumed from the
context of the use.  

	A set of custom commands would be available for use in
VISTA. These custom commands would do simple things like retrieving
the data, displaying the data etcetra. I will start with setting up
simple commands in VISTA and would add more commands as time goes on.

Q. How is scripting going to be implemented in VISTA?
A.
	I will build a parser using JavaCC. The parser would parse the
script and try to report most syntactical errors. Then the compiler
would write out Java code corresponding to the script which would then
be compiled by javac and executed.
	Of course I will attempt to shield the script user as much as
possible from the workings of the script and in an ideal situation all
errors would be reported in the context of the script itself.

Q. When is scripting going to be available in VISTA?
A.
	Scripting seems to be the next most important thing to
do. So other than fixing bugs in VISTA, this implementation would be
what I will primarily be working on for the next few weeks. 

	Scripting is a relatively new concept for me to implement. I
would tentatively estimate about 4 weeks for rudimentary scripting to
be available for use. That sets the date for end of August. 
