	Scripting, An implementation ( part 2)
	October 5/98

	I wrote about adding scripting in VISTA in the beginning of
August and I have added that capability to VISTA. I have been busy
with other projects and hence the estimate I had previously was off by
a month.
	Scripting is the way VISTA is probably going to be used in the
future. GUI's are excellent to get someone started but when one starts
doing some real work ( complicated, conditional-based, repititive)
GUI's are like strait-jackets. 
	Scripting in VISTA enables users to customize their end of the
application at the same time using the components of VISTA. As an
example a user could write a small script to get data from two
different files, take its difference and display it in a table and a
graph.
	In current VISTA scripting that would look something like
this: 

	g1=opendss('file1.dss')
	g2=opendss('remotefile.dss','iep.water.ca.gov')
	# Let's assume that g1 and g2 can be filtered quite
	# easily to just one data reference
	g1.filterBy('my-local-data')
	g2.filterBy('my-remote-data')
	tabulate(g1[0],g2[0],g2[0]-g1[0])
	plot(g1[0],g2[0],g2[0]-g1[0])
	
	For tabulating and plotting and everything else the scripting
uses the same components as the VISTA GUI uses. This is extremely
beneficial as not much extra effort need be spent of maintaining and
fixing bugs in either application.
	As an extreme, VISTA can be run from the script and some
access to the data in the gui can be manipulated from the script or
gui. 
	Furthermore the scripting is interactive, ie. users can try
out various commands like the ones above by typing them line by line
on the command interpreter or pasting the entire set of lines at the
interpreter. The interpreter then runs those lines and then waits for
further commands. This is again of great use as one can experiment
with various scenarios and then write those that worked into a script
file for repititive use.
	
	In my opinion and its only mine yet, scripting will be used
for
- a tool for model/data comparisions
- a tool for model/model incremental analysis
- a tool for dynamic documentation
- a tool for checking model run sanity
- a tool for automated data quality checking/flag setting with rules 

	I am hoping to give a class in the near future to all those
who may be interested in scripting. I would also love to hear back
from the users as it helps to add to the library of scripts

	My effort over the next couple of months will be limited by
other projects. However I want to use what time is available to build
a library of scripts to do some common task which then can be used as
templates for more complex tasks. Here's where feedback would be
useful as "I want do such and such... How can I do it via
scripting?". 

	I will myself be posting some common scripts over the next few
days to give you a flavor of how scripting could be a new and more
efficient way of manipulating, managing and displaying data.

--Nicky

PS. For the curious all this has been possible due to JPython. For
more information look at http://www.python.org/jpython
