DSM2 V8.1.2 release is a recalibration based on 2009 BDCP calibration grid.
Main differences:
    1.  Converted to NAVD88 datum.
    2.  Qual formulation change, a new dispersion coefficient was introduced.
    3.  Dispersion is calculated based on average velocity of both ends of a channel.
        V8.0.6 used only velocity at upstream end. This change improved dispersion
        in dead end channels or channels with closed gates. 
        The difference is significant at Delta Cross Channel when the gate is closed.
    4.  Hydro geometry calculation modification.
    5.  Martinez boundary EC correction:
        --It was found CDEC hourly EC are instantaneous samples, 
        need to be converted to hourly averaged values.
        Data before 10/1/2002 were from IEP, They were indeed hourly averaged.  
    6.  Channel corrections 141, 144. Modifications at a few other channels.
        Minor cross section changes for negative dConveyance. 
    7.  Martinez stage was checked and corrected by Lan Liang.
    8.  Clifton Court gate operation was checked and corrected by Lan Liang.
    9.  Oprule files for gate and temp barriers are using the latest historic
        run setup from Lan Liang.
   10.  Hydro runs 2X faster.
   11.  Qual tidefile output.
   12.  Time steps for Hydro/Tidefile/Qual are 15/30/15min for calibration.
   13.  When there is a water mass balance error in Hydro, the error may accumulate in Qual.
        A water mass(channel volume) balance check was added in Qual,
        and a correction procedure was added to ensure Qual running properly. 
        At the end of a Qual run, the accumulated water mass balance error will be reported.
		Detailed info for each channel are listed in the end of the output file (*.qof). 
        By making ‘checkdata’ to ‘True’, Qual will check the channel volume 
        balance without making the full run.
        If the error is significant, user should try to resolve the problem in Hydro. 		
   14.  PTM adopt a new feature called 'filter', which can block/direct particles
        w/o interrupting hydro environment. It works for channel, reservoir, water transfer,
        agricultural diversion, seepage, etc.

Notes for converting existing 8.0.6 setups to 8.1:
    1.  In the study templates, when there is no change to a file from 8.0.6, 
        we kept the same name, so it is easy to tell which files had been 
        changed. 
    2.  In summary, for Hydro, all the files with elevation need to be 
        converted to NAVD88: 
            The grid files including channel, reservoir, gates;
            Initial condition files for channel and reservoir;
            Stage boundary file for Martinez. To avoid confusion, we added 
            '_NAVD' to the end of the F part of the path;
            Oprule files when stage is in the expressions.
    3.  The source flow file has been corrected for stockton effluent flow,
        the sign corrected to positive.	
    4.  Martinez EC time series correction after 10/1/2002. We added
        '_Corrected' to the end of the F part for clarity.

Special notes for planning study setup:
    1.  No preprocessing scripts had been changed from 8.0.6. 
    2.  After prepro had been done, Martinez stage need to be converted
        manually to NAVD88 by adding 2.68ft and add '_NAVD' to the end of
        the path. 
    3.  The Martinez boundary EC time series was using 15min instant value
        in Version 8.0.6. Although we recommended using PER-AVER data, the
        differences in simulated EC are less than 1.0% when using 15min data, 
        this setup still uses inst-val/linear.		

Known issues:
    PTM animator is currently being fixed. Please contact DWR-BDO if need this function.